othello(1)
===========

NAME
----
othello - asd

SYNOPSIS
--------
[verse]
'othello' [-2] [-p PRECISION] [-r RANKS] [-f FILES]
'othello' [-h]

DESCRIPTION
-----------
Othello is a board game for two players.

Objective of the game is to conquer the board with your color. Players
place disks on the board in turn such that they trap at least on of
the opponents' disks between their own disks. Those trapped disks are
turned upside down so that they change color. If the player can't
place a disk on the board, shift is transfered to the opponent. If
neither player can play, game is over.  Player with more disks is the
winner.

OPTIONS
-------
othello(1) accepts following options.

-2::
        Enable human versus human mode.  Default is human versus
        computer mode.  In the default mode, it is randomized which
        plays the dark disks.  Unlike in Chess, in Othello dark player
        begins.

-p PRECISION::
        Specify how precise the flipping animation should be.  by
        default, it's calculated as a function of the board size.

-r RANKS::
        Specify the board size, or just how many ranks there should be
        if also -f is given.  The value should be an even number.

-f FILES::
        Specify the board size, or just how many files there should be
        if also -r is given.  The value should be an even number.

-h::
        Print a help message with more information on the limits for
        above options.

Also, following options are supported for controlling the window.

-display DISPLAY::
        Specify the X server to connect to. If not specified, the
        value of the DISPLAY environment variable is used.

-geometry WxH+X+Y::

        Determines where window should be created on the screen. The
        parameter following -geometry should be formatted as a
        standard X geometry specification.
        +
        Note that this is only advisory, as the window manager is
        really in control.

-iconic::
        Requests all top-level windows be created in an iconic state.

-indirect::
        Force the use of indirect OpenGL rendering contexts.

-direct::
        Force the use of direct OpenGL rendering contexts (not all GLX
        implementations support direct rendering contexts). A fatal
        error is generated if direct rendering is not supported by the
        OpenGL implementation.
        +
        If neither -indirect or -direct are used to force a particular
        behavior, Othello will attempt to use direct rendering if
        possible and otherwise fallback to indirect rendering.

-gldebug::
        After processing callbacks and/or events, check if there are
        any OpenGL errors by calling glGetError. If an error is
        reported, print out a warning by looking up the error code
        with gluErrorString. Using this option is helpful in detecting
        OpenGL run-time errors.

-sync::
        Enable synchronous X protocol transactions. This option makes
        it easier to track down potential X protocol errors.

INTERACTION
-----------
Disks are placed on the board with mouse.  Just click the square you
want to place the disk.  If nothing happens, it is either not your
turn or disk cannot be placed into that square.

You can move the camera around the board to some extent using the
arrow keys.

ESC quits the game.

AUTHOR
------
Original author and current maintainer: mailto:vmj@linuxbox.fi[Mikko Värri].

This game was originally written late 2003 for a Computer Graphics at
Aston University, Birmingham, UK.

COPYRIGHT
---------
GNU GPLv3
